The President:  Thank you.
(applause)
Please. Thank you very much.
I’m very honored to welcome
our State Attorneys General
back to the White House.
We were together last year,
and I said,
“I’m inviting you back.”
And a lot things have been done,
a lot of progress has been made.
And, Vice President, thank you
very much for being here.
You were here last year
and we’re here again, Mike.
Let me begin by saying
our hearts go out
to everyone affected by
the devastating storms
in Alabama, Georgia,
and the surrounding states,
and especially
to the families of those
who have tragically
lost their lives.
I’ve spoken with Governor Ivey,
and we’re working closely with
officials throughout the region
to get our communities
back on their feet.
Attorney General Marshall
and Attorney General Carr,
when you get home,
please tell the people
of the great states
of Alabama and Georgia
that America has their backs.
We have a call in to Brian Kemp,
and we let them know and —
the Governor and everybody —
that we’re with you 100 percent.
Thank you very much.
One hundred percent,
we’ll be there. Thank you.
I want to thank your
National Association President,
Louisiana Attorney
General Jeff Landry —
a friend of mine.
We’re also grateful to be joined
by our fantastic new Attorney
General, Bill Barr.
Bill, thank you.
Today, we join together
to reaffirm
and strengthen the vital
partnership among state,
local,
and federal law enforcement.
Only by working together
can we ensure security
for every community and deliver
justice for every citizen.
I want to take a moment to send
a message this afternoon,
on behalf of everyone
in this room,
to all law enforcement
personnel across America:
You are loved, you are cherished
and respected
by the American people
more than you will ever know.
So true.
More than you will ever know.
When I took office
two years ago,
one of my highest priorities
was to reduce violent crime.
In the two years
before my inauguration,
violent crime was up
substantially —
very substantially —
and murders had increased
by more than 20 percent.
For this reason,
my administration resurrected
Project Safe Neighborhoods —
bringing together citizens
groups, sheriffs,
and police departments to put
dangerous offenders behind bars,
while supporting crime
prevention and reentry programs.
Part of the reason
we’re doing well
is that people
are getting jobs
because the economy may be
the strongest it’s ever been.
I mean, all of your states
are doing very well.
I think we have the strongest
economy, perhaps, ever.
The lowest unemployment
rate we’ve ever had —
you could say “51 years”
or you could say “ever.”
But groups — if you look
at African American,
Asian American,
Hispanic American —
the lowest unemployment rate,
historically, ever.
So that helps a lot
with what you do.
We deployed 200 new violent
crime prosecutors.
We charged a record number
of firearms offenders.
And last year, we prosecuted
the most violent criminals ever.
The most ever
in our history, also.
With your help and leadership,
violent crime
is now going down for
the first time in a long time.
Murders in America’s
largest cities
dropped by 7 percent
between 2016 and 2017.
Last year, we passed
historic legislation
to combat the devastating
opioid and drug crisis.
And I’m dealing with China right
now on a very big trade deal,
as you probably
have read, heard.
Some of you are
a little bit involved.
But I can tell you,
I said to President Xi
that we cannot let fentanyl
into our country.
Almost 100 percent
comes from China.
It’s devastating.
As you know, better than I do,
it’s devastating.
And he has promised to —
and they’re in
the process of doing —
so when I take him
for his word —
make it a criminal act
at the highest level,
which, in China,
means the death penalty.
That should have
a massive impact on fentanyl
coming into our country
from China.
This legislation expands
lifesaving treatment
and authorizes funding
for local law enforcement
to help those badly addicted
get the treatment they need.
Our State Attorneys General
are launching bold initiatives
to fight this epidemic.
In Arkansas, Attorney General
Leslie Rutledge — thank you.
Where is Leslie?
Thank you.
Thank you, Leslie, very much.
Great job you’re doing too.
Has taken on
the drug companies,
launched a groundbreaking
education program
and trained local
law enforcement to investigate
and prosecute those responsible
for the opioid epidemic.
So, Leslie, I want to
thank you very much.
Everyone is talking about it.
Great job.
But to defeat
this deadly epidemic,
America’s southern border
must be urgently
and very strongly secured.
We fight wars 6,000 miles away,
we spend billions
and billions of dollars,
but we don’t control
our own border.
Drug trafficking
and human traffickers
exploit our porous border
to finance
their ruthless operations
across our hemisphere.
One in three migrant women
is sexually assaulted
on the very dangerous
journey north.
Criminal cartels
terrorize innocent people
on both sides of the border.
Thousands of our citizens
are killed by lethal narcotics —
88,000 people, just with
certain types of drugs —
most of which come
through the southern border.
Eighty-eight thousand people die
and that’s just
a small portion of it.
Hardworking people of every
background pay the price
for a lack of border control
and security.
In the last two years,
ICE officers made 266,000
arrests of aliens
with criminal records,
including those charged
or convicted
of approximately
100,000 assaults —
and these are new numbers,
hard to believe —
30,000 sex crimes,
and 4,000 murders.
Every day, our brave ICE
officers are on the front lines
protecting our communities.
We must always support
the heroes of law enforcement,
and we all support
law enforcement in every way.
Sanctuary cities that release
known criminal aliens
put all Americans at risk.
I urge everyone here today
to make sure that your states
and cities are fully cooperating
with the Department
of Homeland Security
in their lifesaving mission.
We all share
the same righteous goal:
to build a future
where every American —
both immigrant and U.S.-born —
can thrive in safety,
dignity, harmony, and peace.
Before Christmas,
I was proud to sign historic,
bipartisan criminal justice
reform into law.
And I want to thank the National
Association of Attorneys
General for everything you did
to help pass this
FIRST STEP Act.
And a special thanks to Attorney
General Karl Racine.
Where’s Karl?
Karl? Karl? Karl?
Hi, Karl. Great job.
Thank you very much.
You were very helpful.
Everybody said “Karl.”
I feel like you’re —
like I know you.
(laughter)
That’s pretty good.
State Attorney General Racine:
I feel like
I know
you as well, Mr. President.
(laughter)
The President:  Karl is —
really was fantastic,
from the District of Columbia.
Attorney General Josh Stein.
Josh, thank you very much.
Thank you, Josh.
Josh, Josh. Stand up, Josh.
Go ahead. Come on. That’s great.
From a great place —
from North Carolina.
And Attorney General, my friend
Ken Paxton, from Texas.
Thanks, Ken. Thanks.
Great. Great job.
Together, we’re making
our communities safer,
our future brighter,
and our people more prosperous
than ever before.
This is what our state
and federal partnership
is all about:
putting the American Dream
within reach
of all of our citizens.
And that’s happening
more and more,
and we’re very proud of it.
Thank you all for
your friendship
and your partnership
and leadership.
Extraordinary
leadership, really.
Thank you all for the incredible
service to your states,
your citizens, and your nation.
You are very special people
and doing a very special
and important job.
And everybody
very much appreciates it,
and I want to lead that list.
Great job. Thank you very much.
Thank you. Thank you, everybody.
(applause)